Codebook
===============================================================================
Features and feature selection:

The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and 
gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals 
(prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they
were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter 
with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the acceleration 
signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals 
(tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) using another low pass Butterworth filter 
with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz. 

Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in 
time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the 
magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean
norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, 
tBodyGyroJerkMag). 

Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals 
producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, 
fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain 
signals). 

These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each 
pattern:'-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions.

tBodyAcc-XYZ
tGravityAcc-XYZ
tBodyAccJerk-XYZ
tBodyGyro-XYZ
tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ
tBodyAccMag
tGravityAccMag
tBodyAccJerkMag
tBodyGyroMag
tBodyGyroJerkMag
fBodyAcc-XYZ
fBodyAccJerk-XYZ
fBodyGyro-XYZ
fBodyAccMag
fBodyAccJerkMag
fBodyGyroMag
fBodyGyroJerkMag

The set of variables that were estimated from these signals are: 

mean: Mean value
std: Standard deviation

The complete list of variables can be found in the first row of tidied_data.csv,
or in the first column of tidied_means.csv.
===============================================================================
Data processing details

The entire process is done by run_analysis.R. All that is needed is to have the
original dataset in a folder called 'UCI HAR Dataset', and in the same folder
as run_analysis.R. The R script first reads in the X_test, y_test, X_train, and
y_train txt filed as tables, and then combines the test and train values for 
each X and y using rbind(), test values on top. Next, the script reads in 
features.txt as a table, and selects the second column, which contains the field
names. These field names are then processed, to remove all instances of "-" and
"()". The processed field names are applied to the columns of the X data. Grep
is then used on the vector of field names, to create a vector containing the 
indices of the mean and std data, which are the only fields we're interested in.
The x data is then subsetted using this vector to give us only those fields. 
Next, the script reads in activity_labels.txt as a table, and uses it to produce
a factor variable with the y data encoded according to the levels and labels in
activity_labels.txt. This is then added to the data as a column called
'activities'. Next, the script reads in subject_test.txt and subject_train.txt
as tables, combines them using rbind() with test first, and then adds the first
column of the result, which contains the identifiers for the subjects, to the
data as a new column called 'subject'. Finally, colmeans() is called for each
numeric column, and the result is stored in a vector. The tidied data and the
calculated means are each written to a .csv file in the same folder as 
run_analysis.R